# Ethics

### Code of Ethics
 
 #### ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct 

 **Preamble** 

 Computing professionals' actions change the world. To act responsibly, they should reflect upon the wider impacts of their work, consistently supporting the public good. The ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct ("the Code") expresses the conscience of the profession.

1. GENERAL ETHICAL PRINCIPLES.


1.1 Contribute to society and to human well-being, 
acknowledging that all people are stakeholders in computing.

This principle, which concerns the quality of life of all 
people, affirms an obligation of computing professionals, both 
individually and collectively, to use their skills for the 
benefit of society, its members, and the environment 
surrounding them. This obligation includes promoting 
fundamental human rights and protecting each individual's right 
to autonomy

1.2 Avoid harm.

In this document, "harm" means negative consequences, 
especially when those consequences are significant and unjust

1.3 Be honest and trustworthy.

Honesty is an essential component of trustworthiness. A 
computing professional should be transparent and provide full 
disclosure of all pertinent system capabilities, limitations, 
and potential problems to the appropriate parties

1.4 Be fair and take action not to discriminate.

Computing professionals should foster fair participation of all 
people, including those of underrepresented groups


2. PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.

2.1 Strive to achieve high quality in both the processes and 
products of professional work.

3. PROFESSIONAL LEADERSHIP PRINCIPLES.

4. COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE.



## Ethics in Technology

**Morality, ethics of a self-driving car: Who decides who lives, dies?**

It’s a bright, sunny day and you’re alone in your spanking new 
self-driving vehicle, sprinting along the two-lane Tunnel of 
Trees on M-119 high above Lake Michigan north of Harbor 
Springs. You’re sitting back, enjoying the view. You’re looking 
out through the trees, trying to get a glimpse of the crystal 
blue water below you, moving along at the 45-m.p.h. speed limit.


##### The trolley problem

Automakers and suppliers largely downplay the risks of what in 
philosophical circles is known as “the trolley problem” — named 
for a no-win hypothetical situation in which, in the original 
format, a person witnessing a runaway trolley could allow it to 
hit several people or, by pulling a lever, divert it, killing 
someone else. 

##### The hard questions
While some people in the industry, like Tesla’s Elon Musk, 
believe fully autonomous vehicles could be on U.S. roads within 
a few years, others say it could be a decade or more — and even 
longer before the full promise of self-driving cars and trucks 
is realized.

## Tech Company Principles
 